1. Introduction
The project consists of developing software which allows two users to play battleships against each
other, according to rules’ appreciably more advanced than those of the traditional game.

2. Presentation of the problem
Battleships is a game which is played by two and consists in trying to sink the ships of the enemy
while guarding against their attacks. A session is usually played on a sheet of paper which represents
the fleet of ships laid out in a squared zone, on which one keeps trace of the hits by the enemy and the
hits to ones own fleet, whose location is initially hidden to the opposition. The goal of the game is to
sink all the opposing fleet.
The project consists of the realization of a game inspired by the original battleships, but which makes
use of computerization to include additional aspects which makes the game more interesting, in that
a fleet is made up of various structures to which particular characteristics are given (size, function,
mobility, range of shooting, shooting characteristic, radar range).
The rules of the game (see later) detail these characteristics and describe the make-up of a session,
without giving indications on the interface or the detailed functions that the software should offer in
order to make the game more attractive to players.
The computerized realization of the game must be easy to use, and help the player to manage the information
enabling him to fight his adversary effectively.

3. Application to develop
The application to be developed must make it possible for two users to play together, each one on a
different station. The rules of the game are such that they are given in the appendix and must be respected
by the application.They do not fix however certain details, which are left upto the designer.
In particular, these rules do not determine the representation to adopt for the elements of the game,
the interactions between the software and the user, the help functions, or the facilities offered to the
players.
In addition to the rules of the game, the application must provide the following functions:
• To provide a help for user.
• To be able to back up a started session.
• To be able to continue a previously started session.